#### Intro

I am a language and communication enthusiast. This has led me to work on publication efforts for the United Nations in Kenya; to develop a college-level English curriculum, then teach as an English instructor at a university in Thailand; and to serve as an editor for the independent literary magazine [_The Sun_](https://thesunmagazine.org).
<br>
<br>
During my time at [_The Sun_](https://thesunmagazine.org), I collaborated with some of the most talented, reflective, inspiring writers working today. I specialized in long-form interviews with experts, thought leaders, and influencers in a variety of fields including [technology](https://thesunmagazine.org/issues/353/voodoo-electronics), [psychology](https://thesunmagazine.org/issues/496/an-open-mind), [spirituality](https://thesunmagazine.org/issues/384/who-hears-this-sound), [social activism](https://thesunmagazine.org/issues/513/prisoner-of-hope), and [environmental conservation](https://thesunmagazine.org/issues/497/a-walk-on-the-wild-side). My experiences at the magazine, I like to think, nourished within me tender sprouts of personal wisdom and empathy regarding the heartache and splendor of being human.  
<br>
Throughout my career in the publishing industry, I was attentive to the many new platforms introduced and improved by the evolution of web technology and software development. I was enamored by the linguistic qualities of programming languages. I was enthralled with the ways software empowers creative expression and extends personal connection and growth. I stayed abreast of the tech and kept up with the pace of change via self-education and study, including tutorials, online classes, and experimentation and play.
<br>
<br>
In February 2019 I enrolled in a software engineering fellowship at the [Project Shift](https://projectshift.io) code school in Durham, North Carolina. Surrounded by a diverse group of ten other skilled, enthusiastic fellows, I learned full-stack JavaScript. Working independently, via pair-programming, and as part of an eleven-member team, I completed more than twenty projects, culminating in my capstone: a MERN app modeled on the GitHub paradigm that provides a platform for writers to advertise and collaborate on open-source writing projects.
<br>
<br>
I decided to build my capstone with [GraphQL](https://youtu.be/urmi2wbEpGk), a technology that wasn't part of the [Project Shift](https://projectshift.io) curriculum. Teaching myself its ins and outs would add a fresh dimension to the work, I thought. Midway through the project I had a eureka moment: Of course I, the literary editor, would be drawn to [GraphQL](https://youtu.be/urmi2wbEpGk), the exciting newish tech that facilitates communication between the front end and back end of an app. That does so with an emphasis on specificity, clarity, and efficiency. That, you might even say, does so stubbornly, but also with an artistic elegance. I had stumbled upon tech that had a striking resonance with my own life experience, work history, and personality.  
<br>
After graduating from the fellowship, I resumed my self-directed study of software engineering, plying away on increasingly advanced projects. Still a beginner, but with an expanding skillset and a strong sense of momentum, I mostly build with [GraphQL](https://youtu.be/urmi2wbEpGk). My cohortmates have splintered off into various jobs, many of them excelling at front-end or back-end work. I like the full stack, and the art and craft of communication at its center. That’s what I’m striving to be great at.
<br>
<br>
I bring my instincts as an editor and writer to my work as an engineer. I aim to continually grow, and to do the best I can to maintain an open mind. At my most open, I sometimes see reflections of humanity in the code. Maybe there’s a name for this field of study. I think of it as a persistent, active observer at the periphery, silently drawing connections between this human-made world of software, and how our experiences make _us_. Mapping how the two elucidate and inform each other.
<br>
<br>
For instance: How we strive to protect and preserve state, but also how we must find ways to update it, and how functionality depends on that. How our creative endeavors are necessarily guided by the dictates of a minimum viable product, but how we simultaneously dream of what could be and plan for features to be added in the future. How our outward-facing appearance consists of a complexity of components, all visual renderings of a deeper, less visible logic at our core. How we strive to fix the bugs, and, when we don’t have the time or wherewithal to fix them, how we hide them or disable them or just live with them out in the open, maybe with an explicit warning to anyone who might encounter them, maybe not. How difficult it can be to communicate clearly. How, no matter how accurately or effectively something is communicated, it takes a miraculous, mindboggling assembly of bits and pieces and packages and environments and dependencies just to make that communication possible.
<br>
<br>
How hard it is to name things, how many different naming conventions we have, how they fail us. But still we try. Sometimes with spectacular creative flair. How hard it is to tell a cohesive story, how we must always leave some things out, how language comes up short, how improvement is always possible, how change seems to be the elemental particle that comprises everything we know and do. How we may never, ever, in a gazillion years, create a stable maximum viable product. How, despite or because of this, we are so very alive when we try.
<br>
<br>
